How long are you going to continue to be ignorant?
While you're being told to stay away from your beloved Africa,
they are going to Africa in droves,
because they know Africa is with that.
They're not traveling thousands of miles to Africa
because they love the Africans.
Or please make no mistake about that.
They are going to Africa because there is something amazing
and wonderful going on in Africa.
And you're being told,
stay away from Africa.
Your brothers and sisters, what is in Africa belongs to you.
This is the journey to one Africa.
57 years ago, May 25, 1963,
or Pan-African fathers met in Addis Ababa Ethiopia
at the invitation of Emperor Haley Stelasi to discuss
how we could build an Africa that spoke with one voice.
Sadly, when they went to Addis Ababa that year,
they were divided.
The European nations were in full force to see to it
that the conversations that were supposed to lead
to the deaths of the Berlin conference
would not yield the desired results.
They went to Addis Ababa divided into groups.
The Casa Blanca group that believed in African Union now
and that Africa was all the Africans.
And the Monrovia group who had the nationals
was that let's not go too fast
on this united Africa story.
Let's take it easy.
Let's go slow.
They were the majority and they won.
We often say,
when the African leaders,
the Pan-Africanists failed to reach a consensus in 1963
and came up with a compromised decision
that gave us the organization of African unity.
We often say,
that's when Africa failed.
57 years later,
we're still struggling with the creation of an Africa
that is speaking with one voice.
Once upon a time in the brothers and sisters,
Africa was once a thriving tree of life.
Our African national anthem speaks to the tree of life,
the African tree of life,
but was once the center of the Garden of Eden,
which is Africa.
The invaders from abroad,
they descended upon our beloved continent
and they strategized on how to destroy this thriving African tree of life
that gave beautiful flowers,
beautiful fruits,
yeah, in and yeah out.
Today, the African tree of life continues to air.
It is our responsibility as the children of Africa
to rebuild and resuscitate our alien African tree of life.
It is our responsibility in ours alone
to pick up the conversations that were started by the Pan-African fathers
back in 1963.
The unfinished business of the Pan-African fathers must be finished.
It is our responsibility.
Allow me to break down why.
The reasons why our African tree of life is alien.
You see, you got to understand when the invaders came to Africa,
they had an agenda.
They found an amazing continent with powerful kingdoms
and they just knew without a major strategy,
there was no way on earth that they could conquer such powerful people.
So they started where it mattered the most.
The mind.
They sought out to destroy us and make us believe everything African was bad
and everything European was better and more desirable.
To this day, we foolishly believed that.
They turned around and equated ourselves and called us black
and equated us to the devil who is black
and we must share away from the devil.
They equated themselves to the angels who are white
and we are supposed to worship the white angels.
So it is the lies began from such a basic level.
The criminalization of blackness,
the seed of black self hate,
black mistrust of each other was son way back then centuries ago.
We have failed to undo the lie.
I call it line number one.
So on that particular line,
I would like to say to our ministers of health,
ministers of education, my apology,
to our ministers of education.
Why do we continue to use colonial textbooks?
You as the ones responsible
for correcting the miseducation of the African.
We're asking you to please do something about our educational system.
Yes, we understand it is important in this day and age,
but let's not forget our history.
For us to heal from the legacy of slavery and the legacy of colonization,
we must understand our history.
We must understand how we got to be where we are.
That is the only way we can strategize on how we can get ourselves
out of the doldrums we find ourselves in.
So the ministers of education across the continent,
please, we're asking you to do something about the miseducation
of the African.
We're asking you to do something about teaching our children our history.
That is the only way we are going to turn the corner
and heal ourselves from the lies that anything black is bad
and everything Western is better and more desirable.
Our children must understand our history.
And education is where it begins.
We're counting on you to do the right thing.
African educational system must be revisited.
Let's get rid of the old colonial history textbooks.
We are in a position to write our own history,
starting with the history in your own countries.
Let our children know who our heroes are in our own countries,
not heroes from miles, thousands of miles away.
Let's teach our children the truth in nothing but the truth.
And after they started and destroyed our minds and brainwashed us,
they went on to destroy our continent this time physically.
They're metting Berlin and strategized on how to see
the future of the African and the children are defeated.
They met in Berlin for four months to see to it
that African and the children are defeated and dominated.
November 1884 to February 1885.
The channeling economy is that we are today.
The economy is that we can never survive.
What I wonder every day is that why is it that we have been incapable
of rebuilding and reconstructing the Africa that once was?
Why is it that we continue to run ourselves as the little bit of economy
in countries that are equivalent to a state to a county in some nations.
And we call ourselves countries.
And we wonder why we're defeated at the negotiating table day in and day out.
The building of an Africa that speaks with one voice is a mask.
The building of an Africa that speaks with one voice is something that we all must aspire to
and is something that is where it passed you.
The boundaries that will impose the upon us by the colonizers we must destroy them.
The building conference must start.
And along with it, the rule of divide and conquer.
They all must die.
It is our responsibility to destroy the building conference.
And for us to be well ekemed and be prepared to do so.
We must understand our history and how we got to be where we are.
And how building conference continues to be alive and well to this day.
And then we got to where they started talking about giving us our independence.
Independence that they intentionally decided that they will give us this limited political liberation.
When really they're still in control.
They get to decide who gets to be the next president through their financial support.
What they never gave us was economic liberation.
The colonizers, the multinational companies that were in the various African countries during colonization.
Guess what my brothers and sisters, they have never left.
In actuality, we're still under colonization.
They just lay low.
They continue to siphon billions, trillions of dollars out of Africa every year.
The French, of course, you all know this story.
They put the icing on the cake.
Through the path for the continuation of colonization.
Africa remains under siege my brothers and sisters.
Until we can take charge of our own manufacturing.
Until we can be in control and own our pillars of development.
Nothing we do is going to help us in building the Africa that we want.
Let's make no mistake about it.
Africa remains under siege.
And then it gets even better.
Pick him up with the global financial policies, the world banks, the IMF, the Paris clubs.
And all the Chinese Africa is drowning in debt.
Dates that have been paid a gazillion times over.
When you look at what they are getting out of Africa every year compared to the peanuts that are coming to Africa, it's a joke.
Why have we never been able to stop and push back and look at these financial institutions and tell them to stop abusing Africa?
To stop this insanity.
To stop this criminal, criminal behavior.
To the ministers of finance across the continent.
I'm asking you.
What have you done to defend our Africa from this carnage?
What is keeping you from coming together is all the ministers of finance across the continent and speak truth to power.
Look at these institutions in the face.
Come to the world bank meetings and speak truth and nothing but the truth.
They know what they are doing is wrong.
How is it the position of strengths and truth?
All we got to do is stand up and speak the truth.
We are counting on you to do the right thing.
I know sometimes they speak.
I'm asking the heads of state to please allow your ministers to speak the truth to power.
So don't have to worry about speaking up and then getting fired.
Let's do it for our children.
Let's do it for grandchildren and generations to come.
Let's do it for children who are dying, starting to death.
Dying from disease.
Let's do it for youth.
Millions of them unemployed, hopeless and feeling desperate.
The world financial structures must be destroyed.
And Africa demands to be treated fair.
We can no longer continue to be victims of this blatant abuse.
No country can survive with such high debt repayments.
This is wrong.
And we're counting on you, African ministers, foreign ministers to stand up and speak truth to these financial institutions.
Then we got to the World Trade Organization.
Again, Africa is expected to be the provider of natural resources.
Africa is expected to create jobs for the Western world with our natural resources while our children suffer.
To the ministers of trade, I say to you, why are you not pushing back against the World Trade Organization?
Why aren't you demanding that the unfair trade policies be dismantled?
That what they are doing is not fair.
It's not just and will not be tolerated anymore.
Africa is deserved to be treated fairly.
Our farmers are getting pennies to the golaw for their tea, for their coffee, for their cocoa.
Well, the Western nations are building themselves.
Where is Heshi city in Africa?
Where is Calvert city in Africa?
We must manufacture our own cocoa products or on coffee, our own chocolates.
We can no longer take Swiss coffee that we know very well is African coffee.
The unfair trade practices, the unfair trade practices must come to an end.
And we must challenge them and challenge them fully.
Yes, we now have the head of the World Trade Organization.
It's one of our own sisters, but she needs our support.
If she's going to be able to dismantle these policies that are so unfair, it is amazing that they have lasted for as long as they have had.
It is really sad to think that we are reduced to being consumers of our own natural resources.
After they have left the continent and pretend back with added value.
We must add value to our own natural resources.
We must make sure we add value for the consumption of the Africans and Africans first.
We are a huge economy if only we could unite.
Our sister, Gozy, we are asking you to dismantle the World Trade Organization policies that are so unfair to the Africans.
And the next issue comes to you, my fellow African diaspora.
You see, the brain drain out of Africa of many years they've left us without adequate capacity to build the Africa that we want.
No amount of money put into health care can give us the results that we want for the majority of the healthcare professionals outside Africa.
And that is you now.
So we can't sit here thousands of miles away and complain about poor healthcare in Africa when all of you from Ghana are in New York City.
When they are more Nigerian doctors in Los Angeles than in Nigeria itself.
The same is true in every country every sector education engineering you name it.
The brain drain out of Africa must be reversed.
The brain drain that started with children of Africa living Africa as slaves.
And the same brain drain that continued.
With those living Africa in such a greener pastures and others run away from famine and wars.
The end result is my brothers and sisters.
We are outside Africa.
The capacity that is needed is outside Africa today as I speak.
There's not a single African country that has the ability to build a rail line.
There's not a single African country that has the ability to build an airport.
But together we have what it takes to build our Africa completely.
Expertise is where what is needed is unity of purpose unity like other nations other nationalities have been able to accomplish something we have found to do as black people.
As I live in this country of the United States.
I ask for the voices of Chinese diaspora loud and clear.
Ask for the voices of the Indian diaspora the Irish diaspora the Irish American, Japanese American Italian American.
The Jewish Americans their voices are loud and clear.
But when you ask for the voices of African diaspora.
You might as well go to the graveyard because we're missing an action.
Because we've been told Africa is a disease and dying continent.
Our beloved continent is some place that we should share away from.
How long are you going to continue to be ignorant?
While you're being told to stay away from your beloved Africa they are going to Africa in droves.
Because they know.
Africa is with that.
They're not traveling thousands of miles to Africa because they love the Africans.
They are going to Africa because there is something amazing and wonderful going on in Africa.
And you're being told stay away from Africa.
The brothers and sisters what is in Africa belongs to you.
It is your inheritance.
If you do not wish to go and take what belongs to you.
You have a responsibility to defend it for your children, your grandchildren and generations to come.
It is the right thing to do and you must do it.
Besides when it's all said and done as black people, where the mothers and fathers of humanity.
And we belong on the pedestal.
We deserve to lead the world because we get best to humanity as we know it.
So please don't ever let anybody tell you Africa is a disease and dying continent.
Don't ever let anybody tell you that you're inferior to anyone because you're not.
Nobody's superior to you either.
You have an African diaspora.
You have a responsibility to whom much is given much is expected.
We're counting on you.
To have that unity of purpose.
To join hands.
As before my annual ambassador to the United States.
I started an LED called African diaspora development institute.
This is an entity that I'm hoping we can all come together as people of African descent.
And speak with one voice.
We can all come together and unite.
And create that unity of purpose.
So we can go home.
Speaking with one voice.
And let our heads of states know that the children of Africa in the in the diaspora.
While we may have been gone for far too long.
We are now united.
We are coming home.
To join you in the building the Africa that we want.
We know you want us.
We know you have been calling on us.
We have not answered because we were not united.
At that time is over.
Through 80 years we are now united.
We are counting on joining hands.
Mobilizing according to sectors.
And joining our brothers and sisters on the continent.
In building the Africa that we want.
And we continue to be disrespected.
No more shall we continue to be treated as this come of the earth.
Because the children of Africa have risen.
The children of Africa have worked now.
United we are saying enough is enough.
We are coming home and no one is going to stop us.
To our heads of states.
We want you to know.
We had your call to present an adult Ghana.
Thank you for making 2019 the year of return.
We are counting on the year of return.
And declaring 2020 beyond the return.
We are counting on calling and answering the call.
To build the city of returning in Cape Coss Ghana.
We appreciate the mayor of Cape Coss for inviting us.
We appreciate the king of a civil kingdom for welcoming us and giving us the land that we need to realize.
This is the city that is fitting that it is to be established in Cape Coss Ghana.
Because Cape Coss for those of you who are not aware.
That's with the majority.
Of the people of Africa who were taken out of Africa is slaves.
They left out of Ghana.
It is therefore fitting that a city of return be built right there.
And we can look across the Atlantic and tell this levels that while you may have succeeded for over 400 years.
Ultimately victory is ours.
For the children of Africa will be coming home to the city of return.
In Cape Coss Ghana.
Thank you President Anado for that brilliant idea.
Let me conclude my brothers and sisters by wishing all of you a happy Africa day.
But my parting words to you are let's commit to unity of purpose.
Two things that we must accomplish if we are to tend this corner.
Two things that we must accomplish if we are to say once and for all.
The children of Africa must take that highest pedal star, which is where we belong.
But unity of purpose.
They say familiar people registered with ADDI.
By going to our ADDI dot org registration is free.
And in addition, let's commit to pulling our financial resources together.
In the coming month or two.
We'll give you information about how you can be a shareholder in the African diaspora fund.
That is in the process of being registered.
Remember my brothers and sisters.
No money, no voice.
It is just that simple.
And that is something that we have failed to do.
And that is why we remain the most disrespected race.
We are saying enough is enough.
We can no longer be disrespected.
Africa is ours.
The building of the Africa we want is our responsibility in hours alone.
We are going to take this goal by the homes.
And we are going to count on our leadership to join us.
And speaking truth to power to the various ministers in the various sectors.
You have a responsibility to speak the truth.
We have a responsibility to defend our Africa and defend it fiercely.
That is the only way.
And it is the right thing.
And it is the fair thing.
It is the just thing to do.
Defense of our Africa is something that cannot be negotiated.
Speaking truth to power about our Africa cannot be negotiated.
It must be done by each and every one of us.
Let's stand up tall.
Let's let the world know that the beautiful, intelligent, sophisticated, highly adaptable,
and totally indestructible children of one mother Africa are coming together and speaking with one voice.
Children ask the world to move over for the children of Africa are coming home.
The children of Africa are united.
The wishes of our Pan-African fathers, the conversations they started on May 25, 1963,
those unfinished business will be finished.
If it's the last thing we do, we owe it to our children.
We owe it to our grandchildren and generations to come.
Happy Africa Day.
Thank you.
This is the journey to one Africa.
