And our last story takes us to Ghana.
The African nation has announced a significant policy shift concerning its gold sector.
Ghana has given all foreign companies until the 30th of April to exit its small scale gold
market.
Foreigners will neither be allowed to buy gold from miners, nor will they be allowed
to export the commodity.
This was announced by a new government body on Monday.
Now the new newly created body is called the gold butt, and it will now be regulating
all of the gold trade from buying, selling to exporting gold.
Now this agency will be the only gateway of Africa's leading gold producer.
For years Ghana has struggled with illegal gold mining, and it's part of the government's
effort to streamline the practice through the formation of this gold butt.
The government is trying to seal the loopholes.
Now it wants to tighten control over this shiny metal on which the livelihoods of at least
1 million people are dependent.
Then on gold trading takes effect on the first of May.
However, they can apply to the body for permissions.
Now Ghana's gold exports rose significantly in 2024.
It grew over 50% and reached more than 11 billion dollars last year.
Five billion dollars came from legal small scale miners.
A portion of the remaining likely comes from illegal mining, making its way to the supply
chain without proper licenses.
It's believed that Ghana can earn more if gold went through the official channels.
Legal mining is also known as Gilanze in the country, and many Chinese nationals have
been heavily a part of this malpractice.
Many unemployed youth have also joined the illegal mining.
They see it as one of the few ways to earn money fast.
The main reason the government has failed to stop illegal mining is joblessness and unemployment
in the country.
For example, I am getting older and if I am jobless and they tell me about a dirty job
that will make more money than I expected, because I am unemployed, I'll take it.
If someone advised me to stop the job because it's destroying bodies of water and I stop,
if I don't have another job that will make me money, I will definitely return to the
illegal mining.
So it's a dangerous mix of foreign financiers and machinery, local youth desperate for
income and a weak system.
Together these fuel an underground gold economy.
Ghana is Africa's leading gold producer and in the world it ranks sixths.
Now what matters here has ripple effects on global markets.
Recently Ghana's government announced that foreign nationals involved in illegal mining
will be deported.
The formation of the regulatory body is the first step to Ghana's wider plan to clean up
the gold industry.
By setting a state backed body, the government is laying the groundwork for more reforms.
Greetings you with Aloha and Namaste.
I love India.
Presence, occupation of a territory by another country pertains to India.
What we saw in Kashmir.
I know.
The Prime Minister knows it.
How do you see Trump's America?
Yes, the current administration behaves differently from the previous administration.
Are you saying that there are foreign powers who are trying to bring down the current
government in Syria?
Exactly.
Blanche Iran may be Russia.
Prime Minister Modi committed to south-south corporations.
Not over 50 percent.
Is Ukraine prepared to pay the price for that piece?
No compromise is the cost of territorial integrity and sovereign.
