Editing Genues, American reporter was put in our place for trying it with the ex minister of Greek Yanis.
I'm been very concerned lately about China. They're in Africa. They're lending money to countries to build ports and different infrastructure.
To build what?
Port.
And what's wrong with that?
And well because countries that need ports, get ports.
But they're making people dependent on... I mean, I know. It's the same thing that we've done,
which is a couple of long-fall around the world.
They are far more humanistic than the United States ever was.
Really?
Absolutely.
Great.
So...
Maybe give you an example.
Of course, they're peddling for influence.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But they are non-interventionists.
Absolutely non-interventionists.
In a way that Europeans, the West, has never managed to fathom.
The Chinese never asked Apple to go to San Zhen, produce all the iPhones.
It was Steve Jobs that decided that.
It was not China that went to Washington DC and demanded that they buy a third of your national debt.
If they hadn't bought it, you would be in serious trouble.
When it comes to the influence of China outside its borders,
it's quite remarkable that they don't seem to have any military ambitions.
Instead of going into Africa with troops,
colonially destroying the country, killing people like the West has done
for the last 100 years, what they did was they went to Addis Hababa
and they said to the government,
we can see you have problems with your infrastructure.
We would like to build some new airports,
upgrade your railway system, create a telephone system,
and rebuild your roads.
And we'll do this all for free.
No strings attached. We don't want anything from you.
And they did. Why did they do it? Because it's a soft power.
They are immensely self-serving as they would.
But at the same time, they have a quality that we need in southern Europe.
Actually, I think everybody needs to have foreign direct investment
by patient investors.
They're patient investors.
They don't come in to grab an asset for speculative purposes.
They come in in order to create a base on which to build and build and build.
And their horizon is 2030.
What Europe has not done with Greece is to do what the Chinese were prepared to
come there with their workers, with their engineers, and actually do some serious work.
It's almost hilarious to see this mainstream media reporters
act like America can do no wrong.
The American government is this innocent entity
that is trying to fix world problems.
And that is just the only good partner that other nations have.
And painting and narrative that it's the others that are doing the horrible things
that Russia has, the China's of this world, not America.
So like they continue doing this even though their job is supposed to reveal the truth
and tell the people what's really going on in the world.
And be a voice for good.
That's not how they use it.
They usually use it to manipulate and to mislead people.
And I'm glad the former minister educated her right there in front of the whole world.
And now maybe she won't try to mislead people.
And I'm glad he called out the fake concern that she has for Africa.
And he also told her that China is more humanistic than us.
By as he means the West, the US, the EU.
And it's just satisfying to see this ingenuous people get corrected in front of the world.
I am Wungil Zalalaam. I'll see you on the next one. Bye.
