Good evening, everyone, and welcome to Harambe.
Tonight we have a very special guest.
He is one of America's most respected scholars of any ethnic persuasion.
Having authored more books than any contemporary African-American scholar, he is chair of Temple
University's African American Studies Department, having started the first doctoral program in
African American Studies ever.
He is Dr. Mollephe Kete Asante.
From Harambe, Dr. Mollephe Kete.
I'm delighted to be here.
All right.
Brother, let's cut right to the chase.
Were the ancient Egyptians black?
Yes.
I mean, every indication that we have a historical information, linguistic art in terms of art,
in terms of science, the ancient Egyptians were African people.
And anyone, John Henry Clark, the imminent historian, likes to say, who was in Africa, who
was not black, was either an invader or the son or the daughter of an invader.
Africans were black.
And in antiquity, of course, the ancient Egyptians were black people.
Well, what categories of evidence do you have to support your contention that the ancient
Egyptians were?
Well, there's a curious question that you ask about the categories of support.
And the reason a curious question is because no one asks if you talked about the Greeks,
no one will say to you, what proof do you have that the ancient Greeks were white people?
Nobody asked that kind of question.
They asked that question about Egypt.
But the categories are numerous categories.
But fundamentally, the ancient name of Egypt, of course, is not Egypt.
Egypt is the Greek name, Egyptus, but the Africans called the land Kymet, which means the land
of the black people.
And so Kymet itself, in terms of the language, in terms of the Medoo-Neptia, which is the ancient
Egyptian language, in terms of that language, we know that they were black people.
But not only that.
But if you go and you look at the paintings on the tomb walls, what you see are black people.
If you look at the indications, for example, in documents, such as in the tomb of Ramsey's
III, where you have the world's first ethnology, that's where you have a group of people representing
different races.
The Ethiopian and the Egyptian are both black people, and they look just alike.
So that's evidence.
I mean, then there's the evidence of the Europeans themselves.
I mean, people, Greek people, like Aristotle and Herodotus.
Aristotle says that the Egyptians that he saw, he says that they were black.
In fact, he said they were very black.
He said the Ethiopians and the Egyptians are very black.
And this book is physiognomatically.
You can look it up.
I mean, people can look that up.
I mean, Herodotus says, for example, the people of Colches must be Egyptians because
like them, they have black skin and woolly hair.
So the ancient Egyptians were black according to the Greeks and the people who were, you
know, observers who saw these people.
So I don't think it's any question.
I mean, the Egyptians never even, they never, I mean, this question would be crazy.
It is not even, it should not even be discussed.
Anybody who thinks that the people of Africa, the now-valley region of Africa and the now-valley
civilizations were either European or Asian, do not know the documents and don't know
the facts of the now-valley history.
Well, there are some detractors, Dr. Sante, would say what differences it make.
I mean, with all the problems that people of Africa and the Sin have today, what difference
does it make that the ancient Egyptians were black?
How do you respond to that?
Well, it makes a lot of difference.
And the difference it makes is that number one, you've got to have your facts straight.
In order to look at the contemporary situation, you've got to have facts straight.
And I think for school children, it's very important that people teach accurate information,
not teach information that is distorted, that is false.
I mean, I have gone to schools recently where young people believe that Egypt is not even
in Africa.
I mean, how does a kid, in the eighth grade, get to the point where she believes that Egypt
is in Europe?
The only way you can get to that point is because of the distortion of the information
in people's minds and imaginations.
So what I say, but it is important that we have this information, it's important for
number one, you teach accuracy.
Number two is important because it relates directly to our perception of the African continent
itself.
I mean, to rob Africa of its classical civilizations is much like robbing Europe, for example, of
Greece and Rome.
I mean, so it is important in terms of perception, in terms of conception, in terms of how people
view themselves, how we view each other, it is important that we have accurate information.
The ancient Egyptians were black people and evidence, of course, by people like Shakhan
and Jelpe, who did even melanin tasks on the skins of the mamas of antiquity.
I mean, all of these evidences are enough to demonstrate that if we talk about antiquity,
you're talking about a black people.
I mean, you're not talking about a European people or an Asian people, you're talking about
people who, in fact, in fact, the further back you go in antiquity, the black of the people
are.
So if you come forward, then you have, of course, the mixture is coming in, the Arab population
coming in, but the Arab population doesn't come into Egypt in large numbers until 639 to
641 of this era, the common, this era, not in the BC era.
In the BC era, there are no large influxes of people with exception of the invasions,
occasionally one could point to the invasion, for example, in 625 of the Persians and then
the invasion in 333 of the Greeks.
But these were not the great influxes.
The great influx was the Arab influx, which came from Arabia into Egypt.
And that influx came in the 7th century AD and not in antiquity.
You mentioned that Egypt is designated as being in the Middle East as opposed to being
a part of Africa, which we both know that it is.
And what point in history, Dr. Sante, was Egypt taken out of Africa and placed in a
Middle East and why?
Well, the Middle East, and I've written about this too, as you point out, I mean, I've
written about this a lot because part of what has happened is that people take the notion
that Middle East, they believe that Middle East refers to a continent, it doesn't refer
to a continent at all.
I mean, we know that.
It is a political entity and a political concept.
And it's a political concept that came into being basically after the last great European
war in the latter part of the 1940s, the early part of the 50s.
But so it's a political designation, but it's not a continental designation.
There's no continent, Middle East.
Egypt, of course, has always been in Africa.
You can't take it out of Africa.
You can drive overland from Ghana to Egypt.
You can go from Kenya overland to Egypt.
There's only one country separating them.
You can go from Ethiopia to Egypt.
You can go from Sudan to Egypt.
They're on the same continent.
But what happened was that in the top of the 18th century, 19th century.
Under 1818, 03, around that time, there was a deliberate attempt on the part of many European
scholars to try to deal with what they had found in Egypt.
I mean, the monumentality of the temples, the great extent of the tombs and so forth,
which was more monumental than anything, and they had to try to take Egypt out of Africa.
We want to pick up a little bit more on that.
So first, we're going to take a break right here and give our viewers a chance to test their
knowledge of history with our monthly feature, Black Facts.
We're talking with Dr. Malefe Assante of Temple University.
Dr. Malefe Assante, do you want to pick up on what you were talking about taking Egypt out of Africa?
Yeah.
The point I was making, of course, was that in 1799, when the French invaded Egypt with the
grand army of France, they discovered in the Nile Valley a civilization that was more
majestic and more monumental than Greece and Rome combined.
And it was a problem.
I mean, because they had been teaching in European universities, courses on the classics, and
they meant by that, of course, the European classics, Greek and Latin, Greece and Rome.
But when you find a civilization that was anterior to Greece and Rome and more majestic
and monumental, in fact, there's more ridden material about this African civilization,
question is what do you do with it?
And I think that was the beginning of trying to take Egypt out of Africa.
The idea was that it could not have been created by African people.
I call it the legacy of disbelief.
The idea that, wow, I mean, this is an Africa.
How did these temples get in Africa?
How did these columns get in Africa?
How did the father of medicine get to be an African?
I mean, how did the father of writing get to be an African?
How did the originators of astronomy get to be African people, the originators of agriculture,
of geometry, of surgery, of musical, of music, I mean, in terms of written music, mathematics.
And this contrasting with the great enslavement at the same time.
This is exactly right.
And of course, while Africans were being enslaved during the same period of time, in terms
of the rediscovering of sense by Europe of Africa, what had to happen was what Bernal calls
in his book's Black Athena, you had to have an Aryan interpretation of history.
The Aryan model of history was an interpretation that simply said, it could not possibly be true
that black people created a civilization like this.
So that's where you get the idea that somehow each of us is not a part of Africa.
What are the most noteworthy accomplishments of the Egyptian era?
Well, I think that there are numerous accomplishments.
But I, and you have to remember, it was along the ancient Egypt, of course, as the longest
continuous civilization that we know of.
I mean, if you go back to 3,100 before the Christian era and you start there with the
first dynasty, and of course you can go even earlier than that, if you start with the
16 kings before many, who was the first king of the first dynasty.
As you look at that whole tradition, there were three golden periods in ancient Egypt
before their first golden period in Greece.
So it gives you the length of this history.
I mean, you had a first golden period which comes around the 6th dynasty, and then you
had another one around the 12th.
And then you had, and the 18th, and then you had a stronger dynasty around the 25th and
26th.
So you had, which were great in terms of the revival of architecture, the development of literary
forms.
And I think then that the fundamental contribution might very well be a spiritual contribution.
I mean, even though you have all of these technical and material contributions, when you
look at the ancient Egyptians' approach to life, and of course the approach to life
is a little approach to death.
I mean, the same thing.
The idea of the eternal life and the concept of eternal life as symbolized in mummification
itself, and in the construction of the tomb, some of them 60 or 70 feet under the earth,
of individuals who would construct their tombs there so that they could live in eternal
life.
I think the concept of eternal life was the biggest contribution to that the Egyptians made
if you look at the spiritual side of it.
Tell us about the Egyptian mystery system.
Well, the mystery system was no mystery, of course, to the Egyptians.
I mean, it was a mystery to the Greeks, but it was not a mystery to those people.
I mean, they truly understood that if you look at any of the great myths of Egyptian
life, for example, the myths at Heliopolis or the myth at Memphis, where you had the construction
of reality based on the deity, atun, and patah.
I mean, what you discover is that in order for a person to be well educated, the Egyptians
thought that it was necessary that a person go in as an initiate and learn various categories
of knowledge.
So, the mystery system was in fact the first university system.
I mean, this is why people have spoken of it as the Osirah Ica, the place, of course,
where Osirah, Osirahs, gave for at least the knowledge of Osirah and the various attributions
of Osirah were very important for people in terms of learning how to pass through life.
What are some of the remaining tenets or principal that date back to the great Egyptian
era that are still in place in what we know is Western civilization?
I mean, how is everything?
I mean, I'm really being physicist, but when you've been to Egypt or when you study Egyptian
history and culture and when you look in the African Nile Valley, you come back to the
West if you have never gone to Egypt and you see everything.
I mean, you look at the columns, for example, on banks and buildings and you see the columns
that people call Greek columns and you know that these are Egyptian columns and you know
that they existed in Egypt 2000 years before they existed in Greece and that the Greeks
got them from Africa.
When you look at lions, when I drive down the street in residences and I look at lions
out on people's lawns or entrance through their driveways, I recognize these as replicas
of the Sphinx and concepts that came right out of the avenue of the Sphinx in Thebes,
Eluxar.
So, you have that.
You have the Pyramid, of course, which is everywhere and you have the eye of Horus, which
is on the back of the dollar bill.
I mean, so almost everywhere you look, you see ancient Africa.
I mean, it is almost impossible to escape.
So much so that even if you take, for example, just the idea that ancient Africa gave to
us the concept of measurement, the first people to measure with a Nala meter, for example,
the rising of the River Nile.
I mean, this was the concept of measurement itself was fundamental.
I mean, you can look at not just measurement, but you can look at even at constructions
of language.
Genres of literature, the autobiography was first given to us by the ancient Africans.
The first autobiography in the world, you see the autobiography of Winnie.
The first philosophers were given to us by the ancient Africans, Harcouff, for example,
Khajemni, Patahotef.
These were philosophers who lived at least 2,000 years before the first Greek philosopher
who was Thales.
So the problem is we don't know about this.
And they don't teach this in school.
Okay, and that's exactly what we want to pick up on Dr. Sante's.
How is it that I can go through high school, college and graduate school?
And unless I went out and found books written by scholars like yourself, I would not know
this information.
We're going to talk about that.
Let's take a break right here.
We want to chat some more with this very interesting man, Dr. Sante, right after this
black facts.
Stay with us.
Dr. Sante, the structure of our education here in America and I guess throughout Western
civilization is built on the foundations of the great Greek and Roman civilizations.
What's wrong with that in so far as it relates to African Americans or people of African descent
as well as people in general?
Well, the United States of America, of course, is a heterogeneous nation.
It's a pluralistic nation.
It is a multicultural nation.
It has never been a monocultural society.
And so what's wrong with the way education is constructed in this society is that it is
constructed on a monocultural basis.
In other words, what has happened is that whites have developed an educational system which
really starts with them.
But of course, they're not the only people in the society.
And we don't have an education system that is based on looking at a holistic picture
of human culture.
And so to start with Greece and Rome, which are very young civilizations compared, for
example, to the African civilizations of Kim and Egypt and Newbyia and the Asian civilization
of China and India, both, really, actually.
To start with Greece and Rome is really not to start with antiquity.
It is to assume a starting place and to begin a construction of knowledge based on that
as if that is all you need to know.
And of course, that is not all we need to know.
I mean, if you only know that, you don't know very much.
In fact, not only do you not know very much, you have a very distorted view of education,
of knowledge, of culture, and you have almost no facts at all about the African past or
African history or African people.
I've heard you say on election circles, you know, I've followed you around quite a bit.
I've heard you say a number of times that African American students sit in the classroom
yet they sit outside of the classroom experience.
What do you mean by that?
Well, I mean, they don't have a sense of ownership of the knowledge that's being presented
in the classroom.
The child sits in a mathematics class and believes that mathematics came from somebody else.
That child doesn't believe that mathematics is derived out of her own history or his own
history.
When in fact, the earliest books of mathematics are African books.
The Ryan Papyrus and the Moscow Papyrus.
In fact, the earliest known mathematical abacus, calculated, was developed by the Asungid
people of Zaire, 28,000 years ago.
So this is an African mathematical tool.
But if you're sitting in a mathematics class and you're an African American person and
you feel that somehow math is something you have to go get because African Americans
or African people never experience a developed mathematics, then your education is a poor
education.
You don't understand that all human beings have contributed to the various disciplines.
So when the Latino child sits in the classroom, that child has to feel ownership of the
information.
When the African child sits in the classroom, that child has to feel ownership.
Just like the white child sits in the classroom.
Whatever the field is.
If it's literature, if it's social studies, if it's fine art, philosophy.
Philosophy?
Give me some examples of philosophy.
Well, in a philosophy class, I mean, what happens is that you have people who will start
with you with Socrates and Plato and Aristotle as if there are no Indian philosophers, no Chinese
philosophers, no African philosophers.
And consequently, if you're educated in that system, it really educates you for white
supremacy.
It doesn't, it doesn't, it does not educate you to live in a heterogeneous pluralistic,
multicultural society.
And so consequently, you have black people who become clarencized.
I mean, like Clarence Thomas.
I mean, you're educated in a sense away from themselves, you see.
What do you mean by Clarence's size?
I've heard you say that.
Well, I just said it.
I mean, these are African people who believe in a sense that they have no history separate
from white people.
That there is no tradition, historical or cultural of African people outside of what they see
white people having.
So they see themselves as the invitation of white people.
Give me an example of what you feel classical music is.
I mean, it's simple.
African American means jazz.
That's not, it's not Bach, it's not Beethoven.
Well, that's a classical too, but that's European classical.
Okay.
The classical is not a term that can be simply captured by one particular people in hell.
I mean, with someone and held as if it tightly as if, wow, that's classical.
I mean, part of what has happened in our education is that people have the opposition of the
European worldview.
It's been such that they impose themselves in a universal frame on everything.
So if you say classical music, people normally think of European music.
Well, that's one classical music.
It's not, I mean, there's Japanese classical.
I mean, there's the classical music of the United States is jazz.
Dr. Sonday, what's it going to take?
I mean, you're obviously a very learned man and spent quite a bit of time gaining that knowledge.
What's it going to take to get this kind of information in our high schools and colleges
and universities?
We're moving on that now.
I mean, there are a number of publishers, you know, there are a number of publishers,
particularly African world press and people's publishing group who are doing an intensive
development right now of books and articles just for this purpose.
I mean, it's necessary for the whole society, not just for African Americans.
I mean, this is an American problem and it's an American issue.
I mean, it's a vision of the society, how we live with each other, how we respect each
other, how we understand each other.
This is information that we all ought to have access to.
Time is very much of the essence.
Why don't you tell me one of the negative ramifications of...
No, I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, okay.
And so far is whites, or within our society, of getting a one-sided depiction of history.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, I thought you were going to say what I was saying.
No, but the negative side of that, I mean, is that if whites get a one-sided picture,
then they do not know the whole truth.
I mean, you have to have all the parts.
And we all have to have all the parts.
Certainly, African Americans have access to white information.
White people rarely have access to information about Africa and African people.
In fact, even the most learned do not sometimes have information.
And so their learn-it-ness is not learn-it-ness in terms of a whole-holes-ism.
It is only a particular knowledge.
And let me just say this.
As always, we welcome your comments, your constructive criticism, and program ideas.
And you can write to us at the address on your screen.
The address will be repeated during the credits at the end of our program.
And we'd like to thank our guests here, Dr. Mulefe Quitte Asante.
You got to go on.
